README.md, before:


## Title: inside-crack

Modified from Ellad B. Tadmor and Ronald E. Miller' friction example

Brief Description: a crack in FCC Ni single crystal

## Description: 

This example want to insert an inner crack or internal boundary conditon in QC. The Ni is modeled used the Universal 3
form of the Foiles, Baskes and Daw EAM potential. The crytal is intended to be a rectangule, turned out to be an abnormal geometry with an error `Point outside all grains` when running the code. Though the code insert the inner crack successfully, the error and its frustrating shape make the code futile. 

[A similar question](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/qcmethod/QNEJ3tRutHM) asked by another person in QC forum is also waiting for answer. I wonder if anybody can help me solve this problem.

## Directory contents:

```
inside-crack
      |
      |-- Makefile..........Make file for building
      |
      |-- README.md............This file
      |
      |-- user_fric.f.......User file for this inside-crack problem 
      |
      `--/Shear
            |
            |-- fric_shear.in.....Input file for this problem
            |
            `-- friction.geo......Grain definition file for this problem
```

## Installation and execution instructions:

1. Place the inside-crack directory under $QC (where $QC is the location where the QC distribution is located).

2. To make the executable:
```bash
cd $QC/Friction-example
make QCCOMPILER=COMP
```

 (Here `COMP` is the desired Fortran compiler. See QC Tutorial guide.)

3. To run inside-crack:
```bash
cd $QC/Friction-example/Shear
../fric < fric_shear.in > fric_shear.out
```

Commit message:

inserted the inner crack successfully

README.md, after:


## Title: inside-crack

Modified from Ellad B. Tadmor and Ronald E. Miller' friction example

Brief Description: a crack in FCC Ni single crystal

## Description: 

This example is designed to insert an inner crack or internal boundary conditon in QC. The Ni is modeled used the Universal 3
form of the Foiles, Baskes and Daw EAM potential. To insert an inner crack,

1. we should apply different algorithms to outer boundaries and inner boundaries.

      - Dealing with the outer first, iterate each vertex, get outer boundary nodes with linear interpolation in counter-clockwise. This procedure is similar to finding boundaries for a simple rectangle.

      - Then with inner, iterate each vertex, get inner boundary nodes with linear interpolation in clockwise, and make the last node in `elist` point to the start point of the iteration. 

      - Most importantly, in `.geo` file we should list the vertexes in a special sequence, by which we can draw the outline of our geometry without intersections.  The start and end point of outer or inner should be the same, namely, there are 6 vertexes if the outer is a tectangular.

[A similar question](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/qcmethod/QNEJ3tRutHM) asked by another person in QC forum is also waiting for answer. I think my code is a proper way to answer that question.

## Directory contents:

```
inside-crack
      |
      |-- Makefile..........Make file for building
      |
      |-- README.md............This file
      |
      |-- user_fric.f.......User file for this inside-crack problem 
      |
      `--/Shear
            |
            |-- fric_shear.in.....Input file for this problem
            |
            `-- friction.geo......Grain definition file for this problem
```

## Installation and execution instructions:

1. Place the inside-crack directory under $QC (where $QC is the location where the QC distribution is located).

2. To make the executable:
```bash
cd $QC/Friction-example
make QCCOMPILER=COMP
```

 (Here `COMP` is the desired Fortran compiler. See QC Tutorial guide.)

3. To run inside-crack:
```bash
cd $QC/Friction-example/Shear
../fric < fric_shear.in > fric_shear.out
```
